_This was a pretty organic discussion of vulnerability management and SBOMs. These notes are somewhat reorganized and restructured for clarity, but there wasn't an agenda or structure for the meeting really._

Desire to assess security posture of an entire BB cluster, including running images and configuration. Is it possible (and should we?) aggregate the IB ABC/ORA data? 

Use cases:
* Discover a known bad CVE and associated package, and query all usages of it across an environment
   * from SBOMs: query for package name/version
   * from scanners: query for CVE
* Normal vulnerabilities scanning: I'm running these images, what are their findings
   * from scanners: review all findings from each scanner
   * From SBOM: harder

Want a software inventory of entire cluster

Is there any progress on SBOMs of Helm charts? To include the Helm chart itelf (e.g. repo1 git repo and upstream GitHub repo), and a reference to the SBOM of each image referenced by the chart. Relevant epic for BB packages' Helm charts https://repo1.dso.mil/groups/big-bang/-/epics/209

Are there any SBOM databases? To allow querying SBOMs

Would want an "API for SBOMs"
* query software components
* vulnerabilities of components, based on severity and propagation

Platform One is currently using a custom scraper, loading data into Defect Dojo
* A custom scraper parses RSS and HTML to scrape vendor security advisories
* Want to know, per env/cluster, what is in use
* from the per env image list images, review all vulnerabilities
* Most of the images P1 uses are in VAT, but some are not: MDO (custom) apps, enterprise collab, etc are not

Alternate SBOM use case: If transferring artifacts across an air gap, and recompiling software in a disconnected environment
* For each software package, use the SBOM to discover and download all of the dependencies (source code?)  
  * SBOM as definition of what to bring across air gap
  * Mostly using Package URLs (purl) in SBOMs
* Using many SBOMs that reference other SBOMs with `bom-ref` (e.g. Helm charts referencing images' SBOMs), there isn't good tooling to manage and query these

Iron Bank's model is slightly different, it is not a true air gap. It allows pulling dependencies from the internet but wants them all to be documented. IB has a pull through Nexus server, and per-image all downloaded artifacts are logged.

Tools for SBOM querying
* Kyverno can scan/query SBOMs in Cosign attentions. A background policy can be used to periodically scan in use images
* SBOM databases? commercial tools?

Are SBOMs conditional on the configuration/deployment?
* Yes for something like a Helm chart which supports reconfiguring `image:` which would result in a different `bom-ref`
* This is not a significant issue with air gaps or a hermetic build: only what you transfer can actually be used

How to get vulnerability data into an air gap:
* https://github.com/anchore/vunnel Anchore has open sourced their Grype DB tools
* https://github.com/anchore/grype-db
* https://gitlab.com/hoppr/hoppr-cop

Vulnerability scanners find app-specific _vulnerabilities_ poorly, they do a good job on _dependencies_
* An "app" may be composed of (multiple?) Helm charts deploying multiple images. The vulnerability scanners inspect an image for installed dependencies. The scanners don't have a good idea of what app the container as a whole corresponds to, nor any awareness of multiple images. Per-app vendor security advisories would typically corresponds to a Helm chart update, updating multiple images

Would like to scan for "build date" (or last scanned?) of a cluster's in use images
* Iron Bank periodically rebuilds and rescans images. Is it possible to discover, e.g. any images older than a week old in use in a cluster?
* Maybe this can be implemented with a Kyverno background scan?
* Would also like to detect images/tags Iron Bank has stopped updating (I guess the upstream rebuild date would be old too)

Would a "BB operator" help with any of this?
* Does this support other BB things like "is this a compliant BB cluster"

BB includes an open source container scanner now: Neuvector
* does it support a whitelist of ib findings

For all of this, it's possible to use both "vulnerability scanners" (scan the whole image for findings, good for top down analysis, from image→findings), or "SBOM analysis" (static analysis of SBOMs, good for bottom up analysis, vulnerabilities→dependencies→images)

Could profile app to discover used dependencies at runtime?
* Want automated triage and accurate scoring of vulnerability
* What to do with it: prioritize what to fix
* Wouldn't ignore any findings completely, but would prioritize fixing software that you _know_ with confidence is part of the deployed configuration
