# BB TOC Security SIG 2023-07-25 Meeting Notes

## [security-scraper](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/security-scraper/) proof of concept

Blake Burkhart recently implemented a proof of concept scraper for downloading vendor security advisories:  
https://github.com/defenseunicorns/security-scraper/

This project uses the Python [Scrapy](https://scrapy.org/) library for web scraping. It runs entirely inside of GitHub Actions on a cron schedule. Output is written to a second git repository to store the "database" of advisories. Future work will analyze the output (deuplicate?) and send notifications (or an RSS feed) for new and updated advisories (separately).

It was a desire to implement something that can track changes in advisories. Some vendors (such as Mattermost) publish minimal details and update the advisory with more detail weeks later. Git diffs can be used to observe the changes with this design.

This code is an early proof of concept and needs further work.

The [security-scraper-output](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/security-scraper-output/) repo is currently private. The copyright status of scraped vendor advisories is unclear. A (RSS?) feed of just links to advisories should be fine to make public though. Potentially a private repo is useful to allow private discussion of vulnerabilities inside the repo's issues.

## P1 internal scraper with Defect Dojo

Phillip Warner spoke about an internal scraper Platform One has developed to track vulnerabilities that apply to systems P1 operates. The scraper adds the advisories to Defect Dojo, which has a list of P1's inventory and cross references the vulnerabilities to systems they apply to.

The design of the scraper is a set of Java microservices. The advisories are first added to an internal DB where some things like deduplication may happen. There are separate microservices(?) for HTML, JSON, RSS and API scrapers. Defect dojo can push notifications to Jira and Mattermost.

The data sources include NVD and MITRE(?) data in addition to vendor advisories. Including these sources are important in case something is missing from vendor advisories. Deduplication (by CVE id?) is required to avoid duplicates.

This scraper monitors advisories that apply to systems operated by P1. It may not track advisories for community supported Big Bang packages if P1 does not operate it.

## Big Bang

Users operating Big Bang may want to track these advisories to get timely notification of vulnerabilities that apply to their environment.

* Could Big Bang publish a list of all advisory sources they monitor?

  Users could monitor these sources themselves. 

  Big Bang could accept contributions to update these sources if the list is incomplete.

* Could Big Bang publish the source code for their Platform One internal scraper?

  Users do run more software in addition to Big Bang in their clusters. They could extend the P1 code to track additional advisories.

* Note that some users may not be able to publicly associate with the their software inventory list. The list of sources an environment monitors may expose this. The current sources monitored in P1's Defect Dojo correlates mostly to the tools in Party Bus and would require review before publishing.

* Could Big Bang publish the the raw output of their scraper? 

  The raw feed should not be sensitive and could potentially be published, as long as it does not directly correspond to P1's inventory.

* Could Big Bang publish their analysis of these vulnerabilities? BB may have mitigations that reduce impact of vulnerabilities

  The analysis may be considered sensitive and be non-public information. Potentially it could be exposed to specific users through a restricted channel. Historically users have not requested this.

  P1 currently uses internal tools (not Repo1 issues) for their analysis of vulnerabilities. This information is not currently publicly available to users.

  The difference between the raw vulnerability feed and the reduced feed excluding mitigated vulnerabilities could be a good way to show the value of Big Bang

* The feeds could inform BB users and critical issues could encourage them to update Big Bang quickly.

* Raw feeds may be noisy for users if inapplicable to the products they deploy or mitigated by Big Bang

   Generally these advisories are very _high_ signal to noise. They are not vulnerabilities in dependencies, these are advisories that apply to whole Big Bang packages basically. If users deploy the package, the advisories very likely do apply to them.

   However, including all Big Bang addons would include many products that are installed by all users. Users would need a way to filter to their products.

   Additionally, without the above mitigation information, some of the advisories may not actually apply to Big Bang's configuration.

   Also, arguably no action is required for medium(?) and lower severity vulnerabilities if the risk can be accepted until the next Big Bang update. The only required action is promptly updating Big Bang when the next update is available. For critical severity issues, users may want to take mitigation action (perhaps to even include shutting off a service) or manually update before an BB or IB update is available. There is in progress work in Big Bang to get updates out much faster than the current process though.

* What's the best architecture for an open sourced scraper or tool for this?

  A microservices design requires a running environment somewhere to run it. A CI-only design can run entirely inside of a runner of some kind.

  The scrapers do require internet access to run. If this information is required across an air gap, copying the data is required. A design that uses an easily copied "database" (including simple things like git), may be easier to copy. A design that pushes output into an API may be more difficult.

  Integrating with Defect Dojo can provide additional value for and tools for users to triage and resolve issues. However, not all users may use Defect Dojo, something general purpose may be better?

  Regardless, open sourcing P1's current code is very valuable as a starting point for anyone doing this work independently.
